#Development Journal - Going Postal
*Note:  For the purpose of this journal, weeks will begin on Friday and end Thursday.*

## Week 1 (1/29-2/5/16):
My first week was uneventful, as I did not have time to work until Friday.  I downloaded and set the Android SDK with unity and acquired a copy of the Google Developer Console, which is used to manage your apps on the Google Play Store.  I have successfully connected my android device to the unity tester app, so I can test out my programs on it, instead of using an emulator. I am also investigating over tools, like Live2D, which is an animation software, and reacquainting myself with unity and blender.  My goal for the coming week is to research the best tools to use to make apps (specifically game apps, not webpage-like apps) for android.  I will then be doing tutorials and similar things to try to get used to the workflow and tools. I hope to start my prototype by next friday, and complete it in that week. 

## Week 2 (2/6 - 2/12/16):
This week I spent a lot of time experimenting.  I have decided that I definitely want to use Unity as my engine, and have done a few tutorials to try to get myself up to speed with using it.  Additionally, I spent a good portion of the week investigating Live 2D, which was a very interesting and promising animation software.  However, I have determined that I want nothing to do with it, since it is expensive (evidentally $275 to use any of the actually useful content, even though it said it was free on their website...) and insanely time consuming.  I decided such a thing was not worth it or strictly needed.  I spent a little time with Blender, but decided my design is better suited for 2D than 3D.  I feel a bit behind, since I have not started on my actual product, but I find it hard to find the time during the week to work on this side project.  It was a busy week this week with tests and being sick and all, but I look forward to a nice long weekend to hopefully put a dent in this.

## Week 3 (2/13 - 2/21/16):
This week I made some working art for my game, and spent a lot of time trying to build the basic functionality.  Unity is proving much harder than expected to work with, because even though I understand C# fairly well, most of the functionality that is extended with Unity is confusing.  There is a good amount of information, but much of it expects you to have some prior background in Unity, or is far too easy and basic to be useful.  However, despite this I have successfully implimented the most basic feature of my game, a box that moves to the right across the screen.  This took a fair bit of investigating, since I had to figure out how all the vector stuff worked.  By next friday I will have not only the moving box, but the ability to pick the box up using touch, and drag and drop it into a bin (very exciting gameplay).  After that I plan to expand the game with more interesting features.

## Week 4 (2/22 - 2/28/16):
This week I made an important and unexpected discovery, the scale for determining the coordinates of a touch input and an object are not the same, so it is not possible to simply compare their positions in space.  This explains why I have been having so much trouble getting my game to recognize touch inputs.  Also, I found that I had an out of date version of Unity, as well as an out of date version of the Android SDK, each which needed updating (as well as a Windows Update, of course), taking a total of 2.5 hours to complete.  This corrected a number of discrepencies I was having with my code not working the way the documentation said it should.  This also allowed me to connect to my tablet using Unity Remote, which was not possible earlier.  After much wrestling with updates and such, I have completed a few things.  These are a track that moves to the right infinitely in a fluid manner at an adjustable speed, a box which can (but does not currently, since it is inconvenient for testing) move to the right from one side of the screen to the other, and the ability for the game to register a touch which falls onto the box.  YAY!  However, I have had significant difficulty making the box follow my finger, because of the aformentioned difference in scales.  I am not really sure what the solution is, and all of the talk on the Unity forums suggest handling it the same way I was thinking of doing it, which didn't work.  I now have an interesting decision, I can either work to try to find a solution to this, or take a different approach to the mechanic (perhaps a two touch method, with touching first the box, then the bin to move it).  I am undecided which I will do, but I think for now I will spend a bit more time working on trying to drag and drop before moving to other ideas.  Overall I am feeling much more optimistic than I was earlier in the week, since things seem to be coming together better now.

## Week 5 (2/29 - 3/6/16):
I fixed the aforementioned scale problem, using ScreenToWorldPoint, which is evidentially a thing that translates points from the screen axis to the world axis.  So, that problem is solved, and my box will now follow a touch.  However, celebration is short lived as I have once again stumbled upon a mess of new and challenging issues to unravel.  For a while I have been avoiding this, since I knew it would be a challenge, but no longer can I put it off.  I have to somehow get gameObjects to talk to each other, in order to put a box in a bin.  I honestly thought I'd be farther along at this point than I actually am.  I suppose I expected Unity to be a little easier to work with.  Oh well, I shall push on into the coming week, and hopefully have another breakthrough to report in my next journal.  I also want to add that I spent a bit of time on the Unity Asset Store, trying to see if what I was trying to do already existed and was available for free download, but alas, no such luck.  Guess I'll have to do my own work.

## Week 6 (3/7 - 3/13/16):
So in order to get the boxes to talk to the bin, I had to use the onTriggerEnter method, which turned out wouldn't work unless I set the colliders attached to the boxes as the trigger.  With that done, things worked.  The bin can now tell when a box is touching it, but cannot yet tell if the box is being selected while doing so, or just drifted into it.  Honestly, I think the easiest solution to this is just to move the bin so that the box never slides near it normally.  I have also created prefabs of all the different color boxes, and am working on creating a script to attach to an empty game object that will spawn one box every .1-1 second with a random color and y value somewhere along the track.  The last part I have implimented as part of the boxs' movement scripts, but I may move it to the spawner.

## Week 7 (3/14 - 3/20/16):
I have completed what I set out to do with the boxes spawning.  Random boxes spawn at random times and heights.  Of course, they need to be tweaked so that they don't spawn all on top of each other, and look terrible, but this should be a minor fix.  Unfortunately, seems the bin problem is actually more complicated than I thought.  The OnTriggerEnter method requires a rigid body, which makes things act weird.  Additionally, I can't really figure out how collisions are supposed to work, and I think my problem is that the boxes aren't actually moving in the sense that they are responding to a force, but instead are being repositioned every frame.  I think this is my problem for the box-bin issue.  The next idea is to check every frame to see if a box is inside a certain coordinate area, depending on its color, and use that to influence score instead of making an individual object for the bin.  This should be simpler because it doesn't require objects to talk to each other, which is something I have not really been able to figure out how to do.

## Week 8 (3/21 - 3/27/16):
This week was spring break, and I went to visit my grandparents in Arizona.  I did not bring my laptop, and thus did not work on my twenty percent project.  I've been thinking about the UI elements I will need for this game, and I think I will handle all the menus as seperate scenes, that way I can just use the position of the touch and not worry about which layer each element is in to look nice.  This means that none of these menus will be available during play (I think, at least) except the pause menu, which I think I shall have to handle a different way. I'm sure there are plenty of tutorials on pause buttons though.  An additional change I have been thinking about is locking the screen in landscape.  I'm sure it's fairly simple, probably just a setting somewhere, but I have to find it.

## Week 9 (3/28 - 4/5/16):
This week, being as I just rode an airplane, I of course got pretty sick.  I had a bit of time during the week to work prior to this, but left most of the work until the end of the week, as usual.  However, come friday I was totally unable to work on coding, or even stay awake.  I coughed and slept through the weekend and monday, so I only really got to do a large amount of work on tuesday.  At this point I have fufilled my deliverable, I am part of the way through my final game.  The major features are implimented, such as the drag and drop.  Additionally, I added a new feature to help differentiate the feel of my gameplay.  I made buttons that shift the screen over when you press them, requiring the player to move back and forth to see all the boxes and bins.  The whole game is quite buggy, of course.  The boxes currently all stop when one is picked up, sometimes the camera moves too far for the background if the device has the wrong aspect ratio, and some of the bins are draggable for some reason.  However, good progress is being made and I can see the game coming together.

## Week 10 (4/6 - 4/10/16):
I have fixed the problem with the boxes all getting stuck when touching one.  It was a silly mistake, and I caught it pretty quickly.  I have to tweak the movement still, in order to make sure it never goes beyond the background no matter what aspect ratio.  I think the easiest solution to this problem is to simply make the background bigger so there is more margin for error, so I have done this in the editor.  However, I don't really like how this looks, so I will probably tweak the background in a picture editor so that it can be longer without being taller or stretched out.  Next, I have to work on the final bit of functionality.  I have to get the boxes to finally actually go in the bins, then I'll be ready to tweak everything so it works nicer.  After that, I'll begin working on making the scoring mechanic and life bar, and then I'll be able to make levels.  That'll probably open another can of worms, but it has to get done eventually, can't have a game with only one level.  

## Week 11 (4/11 - 4/17/16):
The life bar is working, which is great.  I finally figured out how to make the send messages thing work.  I had to use the "find" thing, so that it knows which object to send the message to by name.  I had to do this because it is impossible to create a reference to an object in the hirarchy.  I tried the same thing with the bin, though, and it didn't do what I wanted. I think that problem is in the touch script though, not the bin one.  Will have to do more testing to find the exact problem.  I also redid the background so that the bins are higher on the screen.  I think this looks better, and it makes it easier to tell when the player moved the boxes to the bin, since the boxes never overlap the bin otherwise.  Still more work to be done, but it's almost to the point where it is playable. 

## Week 12 (4/18 - 4/24/16):
This week was kind of a rollercoaster.  I figured out how to pass parameters into messages with the SendMessage thing.  This is a huge step forward, since it allows me to pass actual values into my methods.  I was also able to write a method so that each box can know what color it is from when it is spawned.  I attempted to use this to find the correct bin for the box to go in, using a switch that would set a string to the correct bin's name based on the color.  I could then send that bin a message, passing it the gameObject of that box so it could store it and reference it later when it was going to be touched.  All of this seemed like a great idea, and it all compiled fine.  However, when I ran it, it was passing null values and throwing errors at me, so obviously something is very wrong.  Back to the debugger I suppose.

## Week 13 (4/25 - 5/1/16):
I fixed the crashing problem by just writing the SendMessage code 5 times in the switch instead of trying to set a string variable for it.  The boxes now know where the bins are.  Yay.  They also know when you are holding them over the bin, but I am having some trouble with making them disappear and raise the life bar (this is not the final plan for them, but I haven't yet implemented the score).  I'm running into a similar problem I had with the movement, all the boxes want to disappear.  I tried using the same solution, the bool isThis which only is true when hit.transform is the object's transform.  However, this didn't work, and I'm thinking the problem is that there are too many things going on in one script.  I am going to have to end up breaking up the script into multiple so it is less confusing to me and possibly to the computer.  While I was at the airport waiting, I added a working pause button and a title screen.  The title screen has a few boxes on it that change color when you tap them, because I thought that sounded cool.

## Week 14 (5/2 - 5/8/16):
This week was difficult, Unity Remote 4 decided randomly that it just wasn't gonna show up for work.  When I got home, it started working again but then decided that my imaginary Oculus Rift wouldn't connect, which was strange.  However, there were breakthroughs.  The bin box thing works! All the colors, just gotta have the correct bin in the scene or everything explodes in errors and death.  The title scene works (kinda), as in it will go to the next scene when you press the button, and the info screen will open.  However, the close button doesn't work for the info screen, nor do the boxes change color when they are tapped, as I had hoped.  These changes are somewhat minor, technically the game could be played at this point, but it's not that interesting.  Also, the boxes disappearing is kinda awkward, there may be some way to make it more smooth.  I also need to add music and sounds, and impliment a score mechanic, and make levels that feel different.  I may also make a level selection scene, though that will be low on my priorities list.  